[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Sheila
Gillette and the THEO Group are
back with us by popular demand.
This time, however,
you're going to be meeting
the other half of the
equation, Sheila's soul
partner and husband Marcus.
We're going to be talking
about relationships
and love today in all
its forms and nuances.
And I know you're both excited
to talk about this, right?
>> MARCUS GILLETTE: We are
>> SHEILA GILLETTE:
Very much so.
>> REGINA: Well, and the nice
thing is you were able to bring
into your lives your true
match for this lifetime, right?
>> SHEILA: Absolutely.
You know, there is
love at first sight.
And when we met through a mutual
friend, when Marcus walked up
to the table, he literally
took my breath away.
And I knew he knew
more about me than I
knew about him because,
he'd read my first book.
And I couldn't talk.
He had such an impact on me.
And I thought who
is this person?
And why am I having
this experience?
Because it was more than
being attracted to somebody,
it was larger than that.
>> REGINA: It was a recognition.
>> SHEILA: It was
a soul recognition.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SHEILA: For sure.
>> REGINA: OK, that's
her half of the story.
What's your half, Marcus?
>> MARCUS: Probably a little
bit slower on the uptake--
>> REGINA: You're a guy.
>> MARCUS: You know,
as a guy, right.
I was a fan.
I mean, I'd read her book.
We had a mutual
friend that, you know,
said would you like
to meet Sheila?
She's coming to town
to channel THEO.
And I know we're going
to go to the channeling,
but would you like to
meet her beforehand?
I said absolutely.
And so we had a chance to meet.
We were at the Phoenician
in Paradise Valley, Arizona.
And all I can remember
was thinking, wow,
she's really
beautiful in person.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MARCUS: And wasn't at
that time thinking anything
romantic, just
because I was a fan.
>> REGINA: Yeah, you were a fan.
You weren't thinking
in that way.
>> MARCUS: I was kind of a
student of THEO too and, you
know, Sheila.
So I was really
happy to be there.
And then things got
much more interesting.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
yeah, and that's true.
Sheila is so beautiful--
I'm not meaning to
talk behind your back,
because you're right
in front of me,
but-- is so beautiful
energetically it comes through.
As beautiful as you
look in pictures,
you're more beautiful in person.
So I mean, I can see where that
radiance just totally lit you
up.
>> MARCUS: It did.
>> REGINA: And so then
you went on a journey.
And it's been interesting.
Such a broad swath of experience
that came into your lives
by finally connecting
with someone that you're
meant to be with.
And this is something
that's the holy grail
for a lot of people
that never have
that opportunity in a given--
that don't in a given lifetime.
But again, they're
lifetimes after lifetimes.
And we're working
on different things
and experiencing different
things in each time.
And I just want
you to comment on
that about not every time you're
going to be with that soul
mate, twin flame person.
But that's OK.
>> SHEILA: It is OK, because the
soul chooses perfectly what it
wants to learn from and work
with and whom to work with.
For THEO talks about that
groups incarnate together
to support each other's growth.
And so we get in relationships.
Where do we learn most
but in relationships.
THEO said, if you live alone
you can always be right.
You have nobody to
give you the contrast
of a different opinion.
So of course, when we
come into an incarnation,
it's to be involved with others.
You know, humans are animals.
They're herd animals.
They want to be together
in community and family
and have that interaction,
because the learning is
emotions.
And that's where we best learn.
>> REGINA: It's true.
And we may come into
a relationship that
is a soul agreement, though our
conscious mind doesn't know it.
We think it's all
about love and bliss
and happily ever
after, you know,
when you were first starting
out and often even when we're
getting married to someone.
But in fact what we've
come together for on a soul
level is entirely different
and to be revealed over time.
>> SHEILA: Yes.
>> REGINA: And a lot of times
people come together really
as a soul relationship to
bring other souls in as family
and provide a safe,
growth-oriented experience
for those other
people or not, right?
>> SHEILA: True.
True.
You know, we learn
most with the contrast.
And so at times when we
come in and, you know,
the people say I want
to be with my soul mate.
Well, soul family or soul
mate, you know, our soul mate
could be our greatest teacher.
And it's not always
roses and happiness.
It is challenge because
challenge is how we grow best.
If it's all roses
and wonderfulness,
there's no contrast for us to
grow and expand and understand
the human experience, which
our soul truly wants to have.
>> REGINA: Well, and
that makes sense too,
because if you're with someone
that your soul has really this
deep commitment to finding,
hunting down, and being with,
there is also a level of
intensity in it would keep you
together long enough to go
through these really intense
experiences.
>> MARCUS: Well, exactly.
And, you know, THEO has
quoted the Dalai Lama
by saying that some
of these people
are our sacred friends as well.
They're the ones that are
the catalyst for the highest
growth.
And we choose, our soul does,
these different experiences
for growth that can
be really intense.
And then you look back at them,
and you say, what in the world
did I sign up for
that class for, right?
I mean, you wouldn't
in your conscious mind
choose to have such a
challenging situation.
>> REGINA: It could be abusive.
You could have entered the most
intense relationship that you
absolutely just cannot avoid.
It just keeps driving
you back to it.
It might be also your
most abusive relationship.
And that is a really
hard pill for someone
to swallow often
times, because that
is the one thing that is
going to give you the most
rapid opportunity for growth.
>> MARCUS: Well, and not to
judge yourself for choosing it.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
That's a big one.
>> SHEILA: Well, and
in that growth process,
we get to learn how to
hold our boundaries,
how to love ourselves.
You know, that whole saying,
love yourself and then others
as yourself.
That's hard to do.
That's been a
saying, that's been
a teaching around for century
after century after century.
But now is the time that
we get to really express
that and learn about it, because
the relationship that we must
have is with ourself first.
And that's why we are with each
other, to mirror to each other
that difference of opinion.
Or even as you said, it could be
a most abusive and challenging
relationship, because we have
to stand in our own integrity
and authenticity.
And the gift we give
others in our lives
is our truth and our ability to
know that we are divine master
beings having this
human experience,
being in these human bodies.
And when we get that,
things changed dramatically.
The trajectory of
our life changes.
And then our
relationships change.
>> REGINA: Right.
Very true.
And now, I said the word
nuance in the very beginning.
This is nuance.
You can end up in a
profound relationship,
say, that's abusive,
that's meant
to be for you to learn about
sovereignty and boundaries
and standing up for
yourself and the like.
And there's sometimes
just through patterning,
subconscious, or
weakness of will,
you keep tripping
into the same thing.
>> MARCUS: But it's
an old patterning.
It's an old way of being.
>> REGINA: It's
an old patterning.
It's not necessarily-- I'm
not saying everyone that's
in that kind of
intense situation
that that's your soul
partner and your soul friend.
Sometimes it just has to do
with subconscious repetition.
>> MARCUS: Well, and a lot of
people continue to repeat those
pairings until they realize they
don't have to do that anymore.
They realize the core
circumstance that
created whatever that
need is that they think
is going to be filled
by someone else.
So THEO talks about
the new paradigm
being relationships of need
are no longer fruitful for us
at all, but rather preference.
>> REGINA: Preference,
exactly, because, say,
you've been in this pattern,
you know a negative pattern
in relationships, and
you finally have the aha.
You stand up for yourself
and say hey, what am I doing?
I don't need this anymore.
And you start saying no to that.
And then it allows
perhaps the possibility
for a different kind of
soul mate to come in.
But it doesn't mean
the lessons are over.
>> SHEILA: No.
>> MARCUS: Never.
>> SHEILA: No, it doesn't.
But they're different.
>> REGINA: They're different.
They may not be as painful.
It might be more subtle.
>> SHEILA: Well, we have
different lenses to view life
through when that happens.
You know THEO talks
about soul integration
and releasing limiting beliefs.
And what you're talking
about are these patterns
in relationship that
come from a belief
that we're not
worthy or good enough
to have an unconditional,
loving relationship.
When we get that
revelation, that aha,
that we are worthy of having
a loving, unconditional loving
relationship, then it changes.
And it's in that
beliefs can be changed.
History won't be changed.
Events happen.
They're the same, but our
perception of them changes.
And our perception
about ourselves change.
And when that happens, we
draw into our life experience
relationships that will
reflect that change.
>> REGINA: Right, and then
you're learning at that level.
>> SHEILA: Yes.
>> REGINA: And that might be
a much more comfortable level
in a lot of ways.
But it might be that it
takes almost more courage,
because now you have to dig
down into the profound, subtle
things that aren't going
to beat you over the head,
but nevertheless
cause pain within us.
>> MARCUS: Yeah, but it
can be a lot more fun.
>> REGINA: But you
can have more fun.
You can have more love.
You can have all of the
support along the way.
>> MARCUS: And you can
have spiritual and psychic
experiences together, which
really augment the physical
attraction, or whatever
the attraction may be.
And now you're having
these experiences that
are multidimensional, soul
level experiences together,
you know, collapsing
time and space,
for instance, and
having past life
recalls simultaneously
together, which happened.
On our first date it happened.
So those are the kinds
of things that we
want to inspire people to know
are possible in relationship.
Because if you intend it and
believe it and just start
having fun with it-- and we go
into meditation after we began
dating--
actually, we weren't
even really dating.
I mean, I asked her what she
wanted to do on the second day.
And she said, I don't date.
So we got engaged.
But to know that you
have the opportunity
to have those kinds
of connections
and those kinds of
spiritual, what we call,
peak spiritual experiences
is so much fun.
And it's kind of a new
paradigm in relationships.
>> REGINA: It is.
And still, even with
that-- and I keep
pounding this home for
a reason because people
need to not beat
themselves up over what
we've drawn into our lives
regarding relationships.
There's always a
chance for renewal.
But there's always the chance--
the responsibility
for growth as well.
I mean, even with you
two, you can't just
sit back and be
lazy all of a sudden
and say, I've got
this one dialed in.
>> MARCUS: We're
learning all the time.
>> SHEILA: All the time.
>> MARCUS: We are each
other's best teachers.
>> REGINA: There you go.
>> SHEILA: Yes.
>> MARCUS: We are.
>> SHEILA: But it's fun.
It's not that, oh, my god,
I can't do this anymore.
It's like waking up having
gratitude for that opportunity
and saying, what are we
going to learn today?
You know, looking forward
to the opportunities
of learning rather
than resisting them
and being afraid of them.
>> REGINA: And having a partner
that understands the beauty
in growth, just the beauty
and the necessity to continue
growing and expanding.
And that's something--
for me, that's
taken quite a long time in my
lifetime to get to the point
where I didn't find
the process of growth
on some level at least a
little painful, you know,
and crawl back into
my little hidey hole,
like the little kitten
under the porch, you know.
Much more comfortable
to hide, rather than
have to be fully vulnerable
and reveal yourself to someone.
And we're all afraid
of being vulnerable.
But once you begin that
process and the other person
is still standing
there with you,
I don't think there's anything
more sacred on this planet,
even if that is
a little painful.
>> SHEILA: I totally agree.
I totally agree with
that, because that's
how we're meant to
be with each other,
in our primary relationship,
but in all relationships.
You know, THEO talks about the
new paradigm of relationship
being preferential, not needy,
because the old way of being
is the woundedness.
And one person was attracted
to the woundedness in another
with the subconscious belief
that if I take care of you,
you'll take care of me.
And that never works, because
it's an inside out job.
We have to do the inner work,
the inner process of realizing
that we're worthy of the
love we're seeking and being
of that vibrational
frequency to attract it.
>> REGINA: Right.
No, that makes perfect sense.
Otherwise you have
two wounded lovers
just kind of stabbing around
in the dark hoping something
decent will happen.
>> SHEILA: And reacting.
>> REGINA: Reacting,
just constantly reactive.
>> MARCUS: And repeating old
patterns over and over again.
And drawing unto
yourself that which you--
at the end of the
day, you're only
going to draw to yourself that
which you believe you deserve.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> MARCUS: So once you start
to shift those worthiness,
those beliefs of not
being worthy enough,
not being loved enough--
and this is what THEO soul
integration process is all
about--
in moving into empowered
beliefs about the self
and loving the
self, you'll start
to attract those kinds
of relationships.
>> REGINA: And then it becomes
a choice, like you say.
>> SHEILA: And it's
not just, like I said,
the primary relationship.
You'll notice your
relationships, friendships,
work relationships,
all relationships
are affected by
that as we realize
that we are divine
master beings worthy
of unconditional,
loving relationships.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>> MARCUS: And you really
establish and maintain healthy
boundaries, so that there's
that owning the power,
not giving your power away
for acceptance sake of others.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, I mean for me
personally that's
been the thing my whole life
is just kind of coming in
with almost no boundaries.
And it really has taken a long
time to develop boundaries.
You know, you'd
think it would be--
you'd think someone would
teach you those things for one.
>> SHEILA: Well, we've
been taught the opposite.
We've been taught to give our
power away to someone else.
Be nice.
Don't make waves.
The perfect example is it's
not what we say to somebody,
it's how we say it.
You know, in a reactive state--
I'm going to use the example
about going to dinner.
You're with friends.
And somebody says,
I would really
like to go for Chinese food.
And you really don't
like Chinese food.
In the past, you see people
go, I hate Chinese food.
Do we have to do that?
That kind of attitude.
Instead of saying,
well, that wouldn't
be my first preference.
Could we maybe
decide on something
that we all could enjoy?
It's such a different
thing, but that's
coming from a response
rather than a reactive place.
Because it's these
little parts of ourselves
that have belief we're not
worthy that begin reacting
from that kind of
angry, somebody
is doing something to
me attitude and when
we find in ourselves that
center point in ourselves where
we can respond and not react.
>> MARCUS: Or you just
acquiescence and say sure even
though you don't want to do it.
>> REGINA: I'm,
yes person, right.
So I think, I
don't want Chinese,
but there has to be
something on the menu.
I do like broccoli.
I'll find something with
broccoli and make it work.
And you just make it
work all the time, right?
>> SHEILA: Right.
>> REGINA: And you
know, on one level--
there are different
levels of that
in terms of just
being accommodating
versus actually not
having self-worth
and thinking you don't deserve
a say in the situation.
And again, that's very kind
of nuanced in its breakdown
as well.
So well, OK, on this
note, what I'd like to do,
if you're ready to go,
is we'll go to THEO.
I have a lot of crazy
questions to ask them
about love and a lot
of different forms
and historical patterns
of love and such.
And I think this
time, Marcus, you're
going to jump in with a
couple of questions too.
>> MARCUS: I'm going to
follow your lead and look
for opportunities to
expand the information.
That's what we'll do.
>> REGINA: Yes, so we'll both
talk to THEO for a little
while.
And we'll save a little
bit of time at the end
so we can come back and
debrief and see you again.
>> SHEILA: Oh, I'd love that.
>> REGINA: So we're going
to just take a moment.
And then when we
come back, Sheila
will be connected
with the THEO group.
>> THEO: It is the
beginning, is it not?
>> REGINA: It is.
>> THEO: We are appreciative
of the opportunity to be
of service onto you.
You may ask.
>> REGINA: Thank you, THEO.
Thank you for coming
here on this day of love
and relationship.
And I think one of the confusing
things that often happens
to people when
they meet, they'll
feel this big charge of
recognition that may not
be signaling that you're
to be together now,
but maybe you've been
together in the past.
And people become very confused.
Maybe you're even
married to other people.
It's like, ah, I
know this person.
I feel like we're
supposed to be together.
When that's not really
the soul agreement.
Can you talk about
this whole phenomenon?
Because we've had so many
lives in our soul tribes
with each other.
We've been married to each
other, parents to each other.
>> THEO: Yes, that's true.
And there is a recognition.
If you think in
terms of a lifetime
and the tens of thousands of
people you cross paths with,
how many are you
truly attracted to?
Very few compared
to the numbers.
So when there is an attraction,
as you speak about it,
there is a soul recognition.
But many will immediately think
I must be with this person,
rather than allowing it
to evolve into a fuller
recognition of that connection.
So it's mindfulness, isn't it?
Being aware, being centered
in self, soul centered
that allows that reflection.
For now in this time
of relationship--
the old paradigm was need.
The new, preferential.
And males and females
can be friends.
Does not mean they have
to be in relationship
committed to each other.
They can be friends
in that commitment
and expressing as friends do.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Yes.
And oftentimes that
that recognition is so,
and especially in
the New Age movement,
like, oh I know,
this is my soul mate.
I can feel.
I can feel it.
Maybe it was your
husband in your last time
or your wife or your child.
And what would you
suggest to people
to guide them through
that process of awareness
or recognition so you just
jump the gun and sabotage
your existing life to be with
this person you've simply
recognized?
>> THEO: So again, being aware.
Fully being aware.
And at times that can happen.
And the other one will not
respond in that same way.
Yes?
That does occur as well.
But there's confusion
about soul mates.
Humans romanticize them.
Soul mates, or
soul family, are on
the same vibrational frequency.
Meaning you're
aligned vibrationally,
which allows you to
have conversations
at a particular level of
availability and understanding.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
>> THEO: And allowing it
to develop, as it would,
naturally, not to be forced.
>> REGINA: That makes sense.
Yet in our old
programming in this world,
often times people--
say, you're in a relationship
with someone else
and not when you're
single, you can
see that a little more easily.
But say you're in relationship
with someone else.
And one of these wonderful
people comes into your life
that you've known,
wonderful in that
you have that vibrational
connection with each other,
comes along.
And you just feel compelled,
you must spend time together
and be friends.
And the other person
feels threatened by that.
And jealousies and
such start popping in,
because this is pretty
common in this world.
>> THEO: It is common.
So that's why we're
saying, take a deep breath
and get a sense about self.
Most often those that jump
are ready to jump anyway.
They're not being fulfilled.
And they're looking for that
kind of electric experience
and recognition.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>> THEO: And that's
all external.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> THEO: So what we would
impress upon you is to go
inside and ask the
questions, is this true?
Where is this coming from?
Is it coming from need
rather than preference?
>> REGINA: Very good
deciding factor.
What about the notion of
some lineages of thought
believe that we only
incarnate as one sex
throughout our
incarnation history.
Others believe
that we dominantly
choose one sex over the other
on Earth life in particular,
that we dominantly
incarnate through,
but then have some
experiences of the other sex.
And some believe that you're
back and forth all over.
From your point of
view or what you
see, what are our
patterns in terms
of choosing male versus female?
>> THEO: It depends on the soul.
One cannot judge another soul's
path for you know not what
they're greater
learning is to be.
So the soul chooses
how they are going
to navigate from what
gender upon this planet.
And so choosing, you
see, for that embodiment,
some would be
predominate male, some.
Others female.
Or some would choose to do
both at different times.
>> REGINA: So there's
no set path to that?
Every soul is different
in whether it--
>> THEO: Yes.
>> REGINA: To have a dominant
incarnation kind of trajectory
sexually.
>> THEO: Correct.
>> MARCUS: THEO, let's go kind
of to the foundation of all
this.
And that is your
teachings on really loving
yourself first and everything
emanating from the self-love.
And how important is it?
And how do we get to
that place of self-love?
>> THEO: It is by recognition
of these patterns that keep
repeating in one's life at
recognizing the fragmented
aspects of the soul, the
little orphans we call them,
that are reactive to life
situations and circumstance
by beliefs that have been
adopted or created in certain
times for survival sake.
So when one has a
revelation within that
through their
reactivity communicating
with that part of self or
being revealed the situation
circumstance that occurred
for a belief of not being
worthy or lovable came forth.
Then the higher
self, the adult self,
can sooth, comfort, and love
that part of self that holds
that belief and change it.
>> MARCUS: And these are beliefs
that have been adopted that are
really not true and not
our own, aren't they?
>> THEO: Correct.
>> MARCUS: And there's
something interesting too, THEO,
that you've said recently,
frequently actually.
And that is it
for us not to love
ourselves is to be arrogant.
Can you speak to that?
>> THEO: If, in fact, you
are a divine master being,
it is arrogant to think
you are lesser than that.
>> REGINA: Most people would
think it's the other way around
here.
>> THEO: Of course.
But one is not
greater than another.
And you talk of your oneness.
It is lip service, isn't it?
But it is true.
You are one with source.
You are the emanation in earthly
plane, physical structure,
but you are connected and
vibrating as one with source.
Force, god, whatever you
wish to speak of it as.
Even you speak I am when you
speak your name, do you not?
The I am is god, the
god of you expressing
in this human experience.
>> REGINA: That's very well put.
It makes it really
visceral for people.
I'm going to continue by asking
a few of the kind of nuances
that have happened to us in
terms of masculine feminine
and relationships and how
they've become distorted
along the way.
And one of them that I
find kind of fascinating
is that through
history, because we've
had this penchant for violence
and war and destruction,
many men throughout history
have been cloistered, thrown
together with other men in very
traumatic situations, lifetime
after lifetime,
really depriving them
of the feminine
influence in their lives.
Can you talk about what
the net effect of that
has been on the
males that dominantly
incarnate as males on humanity?
>> THEO: Then it is all
about control, isn't it?
And who can lead and
who's in charge, yes?
So there is that alpha
feeling that you speak about,
of the strongest will
control the masses.
And there's a competition
for that role.
All animals have
had that, have they
are not in a male
dominated energy?
But what is occurring now
is a balance within that.
But in that male
dominance, there
has been this fuller expression
of violence and control,
or survival of the
fittest, you might say.
And as you watch the
animals of the Earth, that
has been true as well, yes?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
And along the way
what happens is
that the women become more
of a notion of property
or a possession under that
control dominated paradigm.
And you've come into
many ancient cultures,
for example, where a
man had a lot of wives.
Now, I've heard this
spoken of through past life
reflections in many ways
of what that world looked
like at that time.
It still exists in
this world today.
>> THEO: It does.
>> REGINA: And so can you
talk about that a little bit,
the notion of having
multiple wives?
>> THEO: So that was
procreation as well, yes?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
>> THEO: And to be cared for.
And so the women in the tribe
became a unit to themselves.
Yes?
And ultimately, they controlled
more than the men thought,
interestingly enough.
>> REGINA: Well, there was
strength in numbers there.
>> THEO: There was, yes.
However, the control from
the male to the women
was because of their
size and strength.
And therein you had that threat
that they would be harmed.
However, the women
taking it upon themselves
to be quite intuitive
would use their intuition
and their abilities to truly
be in control of the male.
>> REGINA: And it seems that
when I hear some reflections
from past lives of people
and such who've been in these
situations there was also a
kind of general union or support
among the women in terms of,
not shouldering everything,
of sharing and
child-rearing and so forth,
but also that they were
depending on who the man was
and his situation and his own
level of heart or not heart
and no heart.
Again, as you say,
this idea you have
someone who has no home
being taken into the tribe
or taken into that household.
So there was it sounds
like also oftentimes
there might have been a saving
grace in that for a woman
to now have extended family by
virtue of this polyamorists,
you might say, situation.
>> THEO: Yes.
It all boils down to
survival ultimately
in the human experience.
>> REGINA: So what if you
take this situation as we move
into modern time and the
advent of romantic love
and the nuclear family, and
parting out then even later
in the last just
really few decades,
separating ourselves out into
single home, single families,
and not living an
extended family,
even within our blood family,
for example, any longer.
Looking at it from
your perspective,
going from these larger tribal
familiar patterns, whether it
was polygamy or it was simply
a multi-generational family
living together, what has
been the opportunity but also
perhaps a detriment in becoming
a solo nuclear family, alone,
parents and children?
>> THEO: So what has occurred is
a bit of separation, hasn't it?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
>> THEO: Separation from
community and connectivity.
But that will be
retrieved again as there
is this evolution
of awareness that
comes as each person recognizes
their own mastery, if you
would, their own connectivity to
themselves and their divinity.
Then that returns
again in the presence
of that awareness consciously.
And compassion and sharing and
love for one another ensues.
If all beings on your
planet would integrate
as we speak about it, you
would have peace in your world,
for you would treat
each other appropriately
with love and compassion.
>> REGINA: So if I
hear you correctly,
you're saying that the notion
of extended tribe, again,
or extended family, this will
also in a literal sense start
coming back more
into our existence?
>> THEO: Yes, because you are
one species on this planet.
>> REGINA: Well, and
also economically,
most countries are having
so much trouble that older
children and older parents and
then the next generation are
all being forced to
live together again,
which I see as a
beautiful thing.
I see this as a
great opportunity
to have more awareness and
knowledge and more consciously
live together than when you
had to by absolute necessity
decades or centuries ago.
>> THEO: Yes.
It's coming to fruition.
But it is preferential and
with better consciousness,
for there's a heightened
awareness of who
you are on a soul level that is
emerging now that wasn't then.
>> MARCUS: And yet
we also have, THEO,
the dynamic of people looking
around at their nuclear family
as they get older saying, how
in the world or why in the world
did I pick this family
knowing that our soul chooses?
And they don't know who
these people are sometimes.
They certainly can't
resonate with them sometimes.
>> THEO: That's true.
However, understanding
that the soul chooses
to come into the incarnation
and in a nuclear family,
they may not all be
soulfully connected.
They are there for a parent or a
sibling, but not for everybody.
And then there
are those families
that are soulfully
connected and soul family
and have chosen to be together
and expressive in that way.
But each soul chooses.
And we hear often from humans,
I would not have chosen that.
Ah, but you did.
>> REGINA: You did.
>> THEO: And with
every experience,
everything that happens,
there is a gift, a blessing.
So we would encourage to look
for that, the strength that
comes within, and the ability
to have compassion for others
in like circumstance,
and the story
to be told of coming into
a higher state of being
through the experiences that one
has, not from being the victim,
but from choosing an
opportunity of expansion.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And these beings often that come
in without that soul connection
with the family would be
viewed, as we call it,
as the black sheep of the
family and then often times
do feel kind of cast out,
misunderstood, victimized,
and the like.
But I remember one
time many years ago
listening to the reading by
my beings of someone else
and talking about their son.
And they say, who
is this person?
He has nothing in
common with us.
And they said, you're not
part of a soul family.
You don't have any
previous connections.
And they said, what's
he doing in our lives?
And they said,
because you offered
a location, a possibility
in his expansion,
education, and so forth,
like a smooth path to what he
wishes to do with his life.
So he chose to
incarnate through you,
even though there is
no soul connection.
>> THEO: That's true.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
and so this happens.
>> THEO: It's difficult
to understand, however.
But understand this.
There are no victims,
only volunteers in life.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Very good point.
Were you going to say
something on that too, Marcus.
>> MARCUS: No, no,
enough said on that one.
>> REGINA: Also the notion--
I asked you about the polyamory
and about the dominance of men
over women.
Have there ever been
times throughout history
when it was reversed, the other
way around, where women would
have more than one husband and
be able to choose what they
wished from among the men
just as the men did you have
until recently or still do?
>> THEO: There has been, yes.
>> REGINA: Can you
tell us about it?
>> THEO: But it has
not been written about.
>> REGINA: Would you
please tell us about it?
>> THEO: But that was
a matriarchal society,
where the women had
power over the men.
And so now, it's
coming to fruition
that there is a balance in that.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about when that was,
the regions of the world this
was occurring in, and what that
was like, because women
have lost that pattern
and the remembrance of that and
are still feeling at the whim
of and often victimized by
men simply by body size still.
There's still that
subconscious intimidation.
So let's talk about what
those other days were like.
And did that get out of balance?
>> THEO: Yes, it did.
>> REGINA: Tell us about that.
>> THEO: And they're all in
similar parts of the world
before the written history.
And then the patriarchal
society emerged.
The Essenes were very much
a matriarchal society.
And your master, known as
Jesus, was taught by them.
He had a very good
sense of femininity.
And that is what
true masters do,
have the balance of the
masculine and feminine
within them and an
understanding of it.
>> REGINA: That seems like that
would have been a society that
had already come more into
balance between the masculine
and feminine.
Give us an example
of a society that
was out of balance toward the
feminine and how that appeared
or how that played itself out.
>> THEO: Very much like
the patriarchal did.
>> REGINA: But what
was the hook they held?
>> THEO: Usury.
>> REGINA: Usury, but the women
couldn't hold the power of size
or strength or
anything over the men,
so what did they hold over the
men to put it out of balance
like that?
>> THEO: Their intelligence.
>> REGINA: OK.
Tell us a little
more, because this
is a part we never hear about.
>> THEO: Women have always had
an innate intuitive ability
of knowing, of having
an awareness of prophecy
and connectivity to that.
And so men cowered in front of
that, for they did not know.
And they felt that if the
women knew these things,
certainly they had
power over them
and their desire for survival.
They acquiesced their power
just as women have done to men.
>> MARCUS: What time in
history was that, THEO?
>> THEO: Mm, it was
thousands of years ago.
>> REGINA: And why is it that
the feminine appears to have
more of that innate connection
with the intuitive process than
men?
>> THEO: It is just exhibited
so, for men have prided
themselves in their intellect,
in their physical prowess, yes?
So they have not been
interested in exploring
that inner spiritual
aspect of who they are,
because it was not logical.
And they prided themselves on
intellect and physical form.
So they left that to the women.
They felt that was the
responsibility of the feminine
to be the nurturers and the
intuitives and the healers.
>> MARCUS: And yet today, THEO,
women still seem so much more
awakened spiritually
on our planet,
at least in our world
certainly than men are today.
Can you speak to that?
Is that pendulum swinging?
>> THEO: That
pendulum has swung.
Men are having
experiences and awareness
of their intuitive abilities and
utilizing them more frequently.
>> MARCUS: Maybe just admitting
them as much for fear of--
>> THEO: Judgment.
>> MARCUS: Ridicule
and judgment.
>> THEO: Yes.
But more in this time.
That will be revealed
>> REGINA: What about the notion
of, for example, dolphins.
As we've studied
dolphin behavior--
and I think everybody
watching this loves dolphins.
We love the kind of intelligence
they exhibit, sensitivity,
love, playfulness,
but even sexually.
They have sex for fun.
It's not just for procreation.
It's an enjoyable
part of their life.
And they have, in their
case, multiple partners
oftentimes, although they
may have a primary partner.
Can you talk a little bit
about the animal kingdom
in terms of having
sex for something
other than procreation?
And then extend that into what
happens between human beings
with just kind of casual sex.
Is casual sex, does
it have a detriment
if you meet someone, say,
oh, well, that sounds fun?
It's a profound act.
So that's an open
question-- what
actually happens with casual
sex then among humans?
>> THEO: What humans have is a
consciousness and beliefs about
sexuality and what is
right and what is wrong,
a morality about it.
And so though it
might be fun, then
they can berate themselves
or judge themselves harshly
that they've done
something wrong
if they have a mate
doing something
against their
commitments you see.
So the mind is where that
all lies and beliefs.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Yes.
So minus the
judgment, if we didn't
have those judgments
around it, might humans
play and be more kind of
spontaneously expressive
sexually like the
world of dolphins?
>> THEO: Some do.
>> REGINA: Without having
any detriment to it?
>> THEO: Some do.
>> REGINA: Or feeling
like they're using someone
or whatever?
>> THEO: Some do.
But understand that humans
are different than dolphins.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And let's talk about
those differences.
They're a beautiful species.
We're different.
>> THEO: Yes.
Humans have a connectivity
to one another,
just as there are some birds
that are monogamous as well,
and other animals.
The dolphins like that play.
But understand this that
sexuality, intercourse,
is creation.
And it is the highest
connectedness to source.
>> REGINA: And what happens then
during sex when the woman has
that seed inside her body
now even if you don't intend
or want anything to come of
that or even if nothing's going
to come of it because
you're past a certain age?
What is still happening
in that process?
>> THEO: It is a process
of opening in all the cells
of the body and
the mind as well.
And certain endorphins
are released
to maintain balance and health.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
>> THEO: But it is a
connectedness to the soul that
goes beyond the human
existence or the human body.
>> REGINA: And that imprint
of the man in the woman,
how does that show itself,
say, energetically or on a soul
level?
>> THEO: Like electricity.
You have a receptor for your
light, do you not, in the wall?
And you call one end
the masculine end
and one the female, yes?
To connect energetically,
to connect electrically,
that is the best
description we can have.
It is an electrical connection
in the physical body that
does affect the physical body.
>> REGINA: So in general, it
is a health giving, nurturing,
providing process,
that one either chooses
or doesn't choose to participate
in throughout a given lifetime.
>> THEO: Correct.
>> REGINA: Marcus.
>> MARCUS: Yeah, I just
wanted, if I could,
turn the conversation for
second into the really fun part
of relationships, at least as
we've experienced it, THEO.
And I know that when two
souls that are very resonant,
let's just say soul mates,
connect with each other,
there's unlimited
possibilities in terms
of how they can express, whether
it's telepathic communication,
as we've experienced, or
collapsing of time and space,
and past life recall,
traveling together
in multi-dimensionally.
Can you speak to those
experiences, the importance
of them as well, and
perhaps how we can intend
to manifest such experiences?
>> THEO: It's an
intention, of course.
In all connections
that would have,
sexually, spiritually, mentally,
it all feeds relationship,
doesn't it?
And it's all energy.
>> MARCUS: Right.
And it can be really fun.
>> THEO: Of course, with
that expectation, yes?
In agreement with one another.
>> REGINA: And let's bring
in a third party, a soul,
another soul who wishes to
come through these bodies,
and the nature of what
that looks like from
your perspective on the other
side when a soul is ready
to incarnate.
It's part of the tribe.
The agreement is that it's going
to come between two people.
Can you talk about how far
in advance, for example,
these kinds of intentions and
relationships are lined up?
I mean, I would think that this
is not a last minute decision
that these kinds of agreements
that are so deep and profound
happen over long periods
of time and maybe
even lifetimes into the future.
>> THEO: That's true.
That's as we were
speaking previously
about souls incarnating together
to support each other's growth
by agreement.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Mm, hm.
>> THEO: So it is
other lifetimes,
other experiences that there
is a soul connectivity,
an agreement in contract,
if you would, to do such.
>> REGINA: Could it even
be as such that you come
into an incarnation, but
it's known in advance that
you're going to be reincarnated
back into that same bloodline,
maybe a couple
generations later?
>> THEO: That is possible, yes.
>> REGINA: Because people see
that instance where your new
little newborn has all the
same habits of grandpa or great
grandpa, knows where
all of his stuff is.
I mean that past life
work with children
is absolutely fascinating
to me because they're pure.
They don't bite.
They're not reading
anything into it.
They're just putting
cigarette packets
and rolling it up
in their t-shirts
when they're four years
old because that's
their habit from the last
incarnation, for example.
>> THEO: It's a
memory, a soul memory.
Yes.
>> REGINA: Yes.
So this is not a
happenstance thing,
but let's talk about what
happens when a soul comes up
to the point of birth.
The agreement's been made.
And maybe a soul just chooses
more toward the last minute,
I don't want to do this,
I've changed my mind.
>> THEO: The soul chooses
incarnations when they know
they will come to fruition.
>> REGINA: Does it ever happen
that a soul simply backs out
and you have more of
a stillborn situation?
>> THEO: The soul
isn't in that body.
>> REGINA: Not yet, but if
it chooses not to occupy it
and the vehicle, the
baby, simply dies away,
is there anything else we need
to know about that for anyone
who's experienced
something like this?
>> THEO: So there's a perception
that there's a soul in a body
at conception.
>> REGINA: No.
>> THEO: But the soul enters
at different times of the body.
And if it knows that
fetus, that infant,
will not have a full life,
the soul will not enter.
However, the parents
of that infant
have a learning within
that experience.
Yes?
>> REGINA: Yes.
And what happens then in kind
of a knocked on effect of that
a little later if
a soul does choose
to incarnate through a body
and then maybe has what's
called sudden death syndrome,
or sudden infant death,
where they're lying
in their crib.
They stop breathing,
and they die.
There didn't appear to be
anything wrong with them.
They just leave the body.
>> THEO: That too is a lesson
to be learned for those who are
still living.
So know this.
Because the body is small
doesn't mean the soul is.
The soul is larger
than the physical body,
much more powerful and wise.
So that the soul that comes
and leaves so early on
can be a master teacher
for those left behind
from the experience of that.
>> REGINA: Is there something
more on that topic you'd like
to ask, Marcus, at this time?
>> MARCUS: No, I think
this is complete.
>> REGINA: OK.
OK.
Now, we have the real
world we're living in,
which is a total fantasy world.
I mean, it's just a
construct of media,
where we're being kind of
manipulated, if we buy into,
a view of life that is really--
by and large, it's artificial.
There's nothing organic
about our media and the way
it projects life and
the way it projects love
and the way it projects romance.
But yet we're
easily programmable
and we buy into this.
What kind of effect
is the media having
on our ability to connect
on a meaningful level now?
>> THEO: All media is
affecting throughout the world
the consciousness of humankind.
So it's being mindful
that that is occurring.
And trust on the inner
level of yourself
what your truth is, for you
all have a truth barometer
within you, all of you do.
You know when truth is being
told to you and when it is not.
>> REGINA: We're just junkies
for the ride right now.
People want the fantastical and
the, quote, "magical" and wild,
the unearned, don't have
to work for it, right?
>> THEO: Correct.
>> REGINA: And so
what do we get?
I mean, you get kind of
Kool-Aid out of that.
It's not a fine wine or even
a good water, spring water.
>> THEO: So what you sit back
and watch the drama of it all
and the entertainment of
it, for truth will out.
And understand this.
As each and every
one of you comes
into the truth of your being
and the recognition of that
and the wisdom of your soul,
you will not be manipulated.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And I have just
one more question.
Then I'll have Marcus
ask another one
before we bring Sheila back.
And that is in this movie,
Hollywood version of what life
is supposed to be
like, love and romance,
one thing you see often is that
people do not have the ability
to be truthful with
themselves or one another
and will not allow themselves to
be seen at their weakest, most
vulnerable moments, which
we all have and we're all
afraid of being rejected or
abandoned if we show how hurt
or the softer side, the more
vulnerable side of ourselves
to the other.
Can you just speak
to that for a moment?
>> THEO: Vulnerability is
the greatest power you have.
That is the truth of your being.
And when all
understand this, you'll
live appropriately
with each other
for you'll be showing
truth to each other.
Abandonment is the greatest
concern of all human beings.
It's all about survival.
It's truly not about love.
It's about survival.
But it translates in love.
If you have an infant that
is not nurtured and loved,
it perishes.
And that has been proven, yes?
In all animals, whether
it be a tiger or a bear
or a horse or a lamb or a human.
So love is extremely
important, the love of self,
for you cannot give
what you do not have.
>> REGINA: Very
true and so true.
I agree 100% on the
notion of vulnerability.
It seems like when you have the
courage to be vulnerable, i.e.
truthful, in the rawest
form with another person,
that's where the
magic really happens.
As painful as it is and
frightening as it is,
that's the magic of life.
>> THEO: It is.
Good.
You know these lessons.
>> REGINA: Well, I'm learning.
Marcus, anything before we
sign off with the THEO Group?
>> MARCUS: THEO, I've been
observing that many people come
into our Ask THEO community,
just in the last several months
even, seem much more ready
to declare that they're open
and available to find the one.
Could you give us a blueprint,
please, for finding the one?
>> THEO: Everybody wants,
as you speak of, the one.
All humans want to love
and be loved and nurtured,
be seen and heard.
So what is important
is as you're
seeking that in the external,
you have all the qualities
that you want in another,
you know what you want
and often what you don't want.
But go on the inner.
Do you have the qualities that
you are seeking in another?
For if you have
them not within you,
you will not have
them come to you.
>> REGINA: Well, on that, THEO,
thank you so much for joining
us here through Sheila.
And until next time, we say
thank you, God bless, go well,
and we'll chat again soon.
>> THEO: We appreciate the
opportunity to be of service
unto you.
God's love unto you.
>> MARCUS: Unto you, THEO.
>> THEO: Good day.
>> MARCUS: Good day.
>> REGINA: Good day.
>> REGINA: Welcome back, Sheila.
You know, before--
>> MARCUS: She's back.
>> REGINA: When we were talking
in the green room before this--
it's not actually
green, the makeup room--
you said, I want to
know some things too.
So did you learn anything
from the THEO group today?
>> SHEILA: As you will talk
about it, I will remember.
>> REGINA: That's true, because
you don't have a lot of memory.
What were some of the things you
might jog her memory with that
struck you?
>> MARCUS: Well, I kind of
like the conversation about
the masculine and the feminine.
I thought that was
really powerful stuff.
And talking about
the fact that there
have been periods of
time thousands of years
ago where it was very
much a matriarchal,
and not a patriarchal
society, and the women
held the power because of the
intellect that they possessed
and the intuitive
powers that they
had and were perceived by men.
>> REGINA: And they used them.
>> MARCUS: And used them.
>> REGINA: And held power
over the men intentionally.
>> MARCUS: Yeah.
>> REGINA: We've heard of
distant times and matriarchal
societies.
And women tend to
think, especially
goddess circles, well, that's
when everything was blissful
because we were in charge.
But in reality,
they're saying, no,
that was out of balance
as well oftentimes.
>> MARCUS: And the pendulum
spiritually is now swinging
for men to become more
awakened and more open.
We're experiencing
it little by little.
It hasn't been a flood by
any stretch yet coming in.
But it's happening.
We can see it a little
bit in our community.
>> SHEILA: Well, it has to.
And that's what it's all about.
It's about each and
every one of us,
men and women, coming into that
fuller awareness of who we are
and owning it and being
able to express it
from that vulnerable state,
which is really powerful.
It's not being a victim,
but being fully aligned
with who we are.
>> REGINA: That
I think has been,
certainly for me and
for a lot of women,
especially strong women who are
used to having to kind of hold
the whole show together as
single moms and doing your own
businesses and so forth, the
notion of vulnerability is just
terrifying.
You just have to
hold it together out
in the external world
so much that when
it comes time for your internal
world and your private life,
it's very hard to
let those masks go.
You have to keep on.
You've got it all under control.
>> SHEILA: But you know what?
I think men do the same thing.
>> REGINA: Well, we
know they do that.
>> SHEILA: I think they're
trying to hold everything
together and be the guy
that brings the dinner home
to the table.
And I think they go
through the same thing
that women do as a single
mom, fathers do as well.
But we don't talk about it.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> SHEILA: You know, we're going
to be tough and we can do this,
you know.
And men, the same
way, I'm not going
to bother the little
woman with these things.
But I think men get
just as terrified
as women of having to
hold it all together.
>> MARCUS: Well, and
we're seeking that level
of connection.
It's, you know, so much more fun
to have a spiritual connection,
so much more fun to be able
to experience our spirituality
or express it together or
have experiences together.
And at the end of
the day, it makes
for much richer relationships.
I see men just getting caught
up on all this right now
and really wanting that
level of connection.
>> REGINA: But someone
has to break the ice.
Someone has to show their true
colors and who they really are,
so at least the other
can respond to it
and you can create a
new level of dialogue.
And this is a good part--
my husband Zeus
is finishing up--
actually it's already done--
a book called "The
Spiritually Confident Man,"
which is showing a completely
new model that allows the man
to take off the masks and
come forward and be who he is
and the power, the
genuine strength
and power that
comes from that that
can be lent to the world
in a whole new way.
>> MARCUS: And you know what
the secret to a lot of men
don't know, it's a magnet
to beautiful women.
>> REGINA: That's true.
>> MARCUS: Right?
Isn't that true?
I mean, you know, as
beautiful awakened women,
are you going to
be more attracted
to a man who is spiritual
awakened or not?
I mean, that's an
easy one, isn't it?
Because you don't want
to drag someone along
to bring him up to your
level of spiritual awakening.
You want some who's
done their work.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and we see
it all the time in films.
Everyone loves a
man who has been
through the redemptive
process, who
had to go to the
bottom of his own well
and put himself back together.
It's just oh, my god,
we're getting there.
On that note, thank you
two so much for being here.
Thank you THEO Group
for joining us.
And it was a lovely
conversation.
So we'll be back, right?
>> SHEILA: Yes, we'd love to.
>> MARCUS: Thanks, Regina.
>> REGINA: And it's
your birthday today.
So everybody, happy birthday.
It's Sheila's birthday.
And tomorrow is
Marcus's birthday.
>> SHEILA: Thank you.
What a gift we gave
ourselves in being here.
>> MARCUS: And we get to
celebrate it with you.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARCUS: Which is great.
>> REGINA: Thank you both.
>> MARCUS: Thank you.
>> REGINA: Again, to tune
into THEO on a weekly basis,
you can go to asktheo.com.
Go to the website,
sign up for the shows.
They feature live channelings
of THEO every week.
You can also sign up for
workshops and ongoing master
classes.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds"
[THEME MUSIC]